content/posts/2020-04-30-healthy-blood-can-be-drawn-from-beets/index.md, before:

---
title: Healthy blood can be drawn from Beets
author: A Voice in the Wilderness
date: 2020-04-30
hero: images/img_3825.jpg
---
Anyone that knows me well knows that my husband is obsessed with juicing. Every month we juice an obscene amount of vegetables. We use an industrial size press juicer. This extracts all the fiber so that we can freeze the juice while preserving the nutrients. Fiber however is excellent for the gut so I have added it to bread recipes but mostly I end up leaving a trash bag of pulp out for my friend who and he feeds it to his pigs.  The other day we were juicing and I shot this photo.

 I attended the 2019 California Dental Association Convention in Anaheim. I have kind of had a love hate relationship with Continuing Education. When time is short, and it was as I raised my family, the last thing I wanted to do was sit in a dental conference listening to the same thing...blah blah blah. I admit to being inattentive at many of these. Just get this three hours over with so we can enjoy the lunch they are going to provide. It was all about clocking the hours so I could renew my Dental Hygiene licence every year. I was lucky to work very part time most of my career. This allowed me to put my focus on what mattered most  The speaker put up several photos of different vegetables. It was uncanny that once she pointed out the part of the body the vegetable resembled it was the part of the body that benefitted most. We see here in this beet, blood red in color and the circles mirroring our circulatory system. Healthy blood won’t pool and become sluggish. It will increase blood flow thus increasing overall immunity.
So eat beats, be well and be kind❤️

Commit message:

Update Posts “2020-04-30-healthy-blood-can-be-drawn-from-beets/index”

content/posts/2020-04-30-healthy-blood-can-be-drawn-from-beets/index.md, after:

---
title: Healthy blood can be drawn from Beets
author: A Voice in the Wilderness
date: 2020-04-30T00:00:00.000Z
hero: images/img_3825.jpg
---
Anyone that knows me well knows that my husband is obsessed with juicing. Every month we juice an obscene amount of vegetables. We use an industrial size press juicer. This extracts all the fiber so that we can freeze the juice while preserving the nutrients. Fiber however is excellent for the gut so I have added it to bread recipes but mostly I end up leaving a trash bag of pulp out for my friend and he feeds it to his pigs.  The other day we were juicing and I shot this photo.

 I attended the 2019 California Dental Association Convention in Anaheim. I attended a session titled Food as your Farm-acy presented by Mary Ellen Psalts B.Ph. She would bring up a slide of a vegetable and it was uncanny how it resembled part of the body that benefited most. We see here in this beet, blood red in color and the circles mirroring our circulatory system. Healthy blood is vital for efficiency in flow and disbursement of nutrients, hydration and oxygen to the whole body. Beets contain Fiber, folate and Vitamin C. It can help reduce blood pressure, improve circulation and cognative function.

Knowing something and actually doing it is the key. It is usually not until we see a personal benefit that it can provide us with the drive to actually take some steps toward health. i was on a mission for over twenty years from a mental standpoint. Emotionally something was amiss. I found healing and it wasn't through physical food. Eating good is always something I knew was right, I watched my husband heal himself though food while I stood by and rolled my eyes. But the truth was, I just wasn't there yet. As much as I wanted to eat the right way the more it seemed I didn't.

After I healed my emotional or spirit side I was able to look honestly at myself. I was not putting things into my body that would benefit it. I was more likely to feed it what I craved and give myself a pass because I had learned to love myself regardless of what I did. Over time as I progressed in my journey my physical body started speaking to me. Its strange because I never really physically felt much. Women would talk about the physical feelings of knowing that time of the month was coming and I can honestly say I hardly ever "knew" it was coming. I was spiritually in tuned but not physically.

As my body started to wake up it told me many things. Dont drink that much it makes me sick. Dont eat that bread it makes me feel tired and sluggish. If I drank the juice we made my body would say thank you in many ways. Believe me, I am a long way from there but COVID19 has for me resulted in that time I needed to get on top of the research. and to take this back to my work as a dental hygienist. 

So if COVID has spurred that motivation for you to improve your immunity, to take your health into your own hands be gentle, and listen to the promptings of your body and follow it. And if you cant find it in you ask the body to help you, to lead you. Write a journal of what you want, what you most desire, good or bad and listen....
